blob:https://classroom.udacity.com/739baa90-2d76-44a4-bd43-1af61d0dd518


Recommendations
Received (9)
Given (13)
Susan Smith
Susan Smith
Course Manager at Udacity

July 23, 2020, Michael worked with Susan in the same group

I worked with Mike when he was Director of Content Management at Udacity while 
I was a Course Manager there helping students navigate their way through various short courses
 (developed by him) and certificate programs. Mike has an amazing ability to break down 
 complex topics into easily understandable segments. He's extremely smart, conscientious, 
 and an excellent communicator. More than that, Mike is a great team player. 
 He knows how to motivate and inspire people, and managed to nurture a strong sense of
  community among Udacity and ex-Udacity employees long after he moved on to other things. 
  I can't recommend him highly enough. See less
Luis Serrano
Luis Serrano
Quantum Artificial Intelligence Research Scientist, Author of Grokking Machine Learning

September 29, 2017, Luis reported directly to Michael

Working with Michael is an absolute pleasure. His technical expertise is top notch. 
His human qualities and managing skills are outstanding. He had a way to make the people
 in his team shine, by focusing on our strengths and challenging them the right way. 
 Always with a smile and happy to give advice at the right moments, 
 I'm glad to say it was an honor working with Mike, and I'm sure any team that works
  under him will thrive





///////////////
Let's dive deeper into what asking these questions help you understand.

Why did you choose to pursue a new career?
At first glance, this may seem like an obvious question. Take a moment to look beyond 
that and truly reflect on what in your personal life is the driving force behind your desire. 
Why this career path? Why right now? Here are some of the common reasons Udacity Alumni 
give for pursuing a new career field.
////answer
"I realized that I’m not feeling fulfilled in my current career path and want to
 transition to a job that will challenge and excite me."

"I never thought of myself as someone who could successfully code and develop a mobile app,
 and I want to give myself that opportunity."

"I have a family that depends on me and I need a better job to continue to provide for them."

See if you can distill your personal reasons for pursuing this career path into one single, 
assertive sentence. Let this sentence stand as your mission statement. 
This mission statement will guide you as you learn, as well as remind you of what
 you’re striving towards when you face challenges in your learning and job search later on.

/////
xxxx What questions do you currently have about the tech industry?
It’s critical to articulate and maintain an active interest in the technologies and 
communities that influence the world you want to establish yourself in. 
Here are a few examples of questions you might have:

What does [industry term] mean?

Why is this technology used in this way?

Who invented a particular practice and how long has it been in use?

How can I make [this particular technology] better?

Asking thoughtful questions is a valuable skill to employers; it shows them that you 
understand the concepts and materials well enough to question them. Additionally,
 as you gain expertise, you may need to answer some of these same questions for those
  who are where you are now!

/////
What skills do you want improve or develop?
How can you continue to retain and improve upon relevant skills? Furthermore, 
which skills do you still need to develop in order to meet the qualifications for your next job? These are questions that you should think about, whether you are pursuing a new opportunity or taking the next step in your career.

The benefit of constantly working on existing and new skills is that you will be accumulating
 a body of work which can be included in your portfolio to showcase to employers.

In order to know which new skills you should focus on developing, you must become familiar
 with the common skills that the role you're interested in typically requires.

Use your research of the role to guide your decisions on which skills to focus on sharpening 
next. Explore these potential job roles by conducting a simple Google search
 - you'll find blog posts, articles and other guides explaining more about the job.

//////
What are your preferences for a compatible work environment?
You may already have some idea of what you need and want in a job, but taking the time 
to articulate each factor may reveal what is actually the most important to you.
 Below we’ve provided a list of things that you may take into consideration during your 
 job search; we highly recommend crafting a list of your own.

Type of employment (do you want a full-time job or part-time/contract opportunity?)
Work day flexibility (for example, would you prefer a steady 9-5 or the ability to work 
your own hours so long as you get the work done?)
Benefits (how much do things such as healthcare, stocks or equity, and vacation days 
matter to you?)
Job growth opportunities (how do you want the company to support you in your career development?)
Perks (how much do things like foosball tables, company-sponsored lunches, 
and happy hours matter to you?)

/////
What are 2-3 personal values that matter to you above all?
Each company has its own mission and values, which guide its business approach and 
company decisions. Identifying your own key values will help you look for companies 
where you will be able to do work that aligns with and reinforces these values.
 You might be surprised by the emphasis placed on identifying personal values, 
 but consider this: if you work at a company that clashes with what you personally 
 believe is important, you probably won't be happy.

You can start exploring this question by coming up with 2-3 (or more!) values that are
 most important to you. Once you have articulated these values, extend your research and 
 begin networking to learn how you can identify a company that exemplifies these values. 
 What does this look like? Hear from Trinh's experience:

"Years ago, I was looking for a new job and originally thought myself open to anything - 
any job, any field. My attempts to network were not fruitful - every conversation seemed 
so forced and awkward!

I realized that I didn't just want any job - I didn't have a clear idea of an exact role, 
but I knew I wanted to work in education and, in particular, help young students. 
I then started to find people on LinkedIn who worked in afterschool programs, school lunch 
services, and college prep non-profits. I reached out to them for informational interviews 
and got job leads on small organizations and companies.

These networking attempts were actually fruitful because I was interested and passionate, 
which resonated well with others and they were more willing to help me. One person added me 
to a private jobs mailing list, which is how I found my job!"
////////
Separate Your Job Desires and Job Needs
After performing a self-reflection, you have a blueprint for conducting your career and
 industry research. Furthermore, identifying your "must-haves" and "nice-to-haves" will
  help you determine which things are job desires and which are job needs.

Consider this example:

To Clara, it is a necessity that her job be about working on environmental sustainability.
 For her, a nice-to-have to have is the option to work remotely, but she wouldn't mind 
 working somewhere that didn't provide this option.

Jenny loves to travel regularly, and remote work is required for her to keep her lifestyle. 
Working in environmental sustainability would be nice to have, but she's open to any good job 
that allows her to telecommute.

To Clara, environmental sustainability is a "must-have" because it's her passion in life and 
where she wants to make her mark. Even if she got an amazing job in another field, 
she wouldn't be as happy working for a company whose mission didn't align with hers.
 However, although it would be nice to work remotely, she's willing to come into the 
 office every day or even move cities for a chance to follow her passion.

To Jenny, the ability to travel is the most important thing for her, since her passion 
in life is meeting new people and exploring new places. She's always been interested in 
environmental sustainability, but there are also other rewarding fields out there in education,
 healthcare, and services. She's open to any remote roles in those industries.

Using the list you created for the "compatible environments" question, circle some factors
 that immediately jump out to you as “must-haves” right now. For now, consider everything 
 else a “nice-to-have”. These factors may change over time or you may discover more, 
 but it’s good to have a baseline to work with at the start of your career development!



////////////
Map Your Career Journey through Online Research
You have already identified what you want out of a career, both professionally and personally.
 Now it’s time to find the places that can help you meet those goals! In the exercise below,
  you will create a list of companies that interest you. Don’t be afraid to do some exploring
   outside of your industries as well—there are many tech jobs in traditionally non-tech sectors.

The goal of this exercise is to determine the next stop on your career path 
- likely a new job or role. With that stop in mind, you can map your journey with what to 
study next and specific skills to develop for that next job.

Tip: Don’t forget that this process will be a marathon, not a sprint. Explore careers and
 new industries with persistent curiosity. Be sure to keep your notebook next to you so you
  can write new questions as they come up.

Map the Next Stop on Your Career Journey
Now you're ready to perform an early job search to see what's out there.

We'll help you get started.

We performed a search for you on LinkedIn, and you can see the results when you click on 
the button below. We searched for "developer" jobs worldwide on LinkedIn. Click the button
 and see the search results. Change your search terms and apply filters. For example, 
 only search for "web developer jobs in Miami" or "Android developer jobs in Lagos."

GO TO LINKEDIN SEARCH

While browsing on LinkedIn, identify 2-3 locations you'd like to work in and find three 
companies hiring in those locations. The information you collect should reflect why you're 
interested in the company, what makes them a good fit for you, and any basic information you 
should know as an applicant.

For example, imagine that you are interested in companies located in Mountain View,
 and decide to do more research on one called Udacity. The notes you take should look 
 something like this:

Primary Product(s)
Nanodegree programs
Free, single courses
Udacity Connect
Corporate training
History of the company or organization
Founded in 2011 by David Stavens, Mike Sokolsky, Sebastian Thrun
Udacity originally focused on offering university-style courses, but in 2015, Udacity 
started the Nanodegree program, a paid credential program which is its main product today.
Company Mission
Democratize education by offering world-class higher education opportunities that are 
accessible, flexible, and economical.
"Virtually anyone on the planet with an internet connection and a commitment to 
self-empowerment through learning can come to Udacity, master a suite of job-ready skills, 
and pursue rewarding employment."
Leadership
CEO: Vish Makhijani
President: Sebastian Thrun
VP, Careers: Kathleen Mullaney (I'm interested in working on career development)
Knowing the company's leadership, you can search for talks, blog posts, or articles about them.
 This will give you insight on their interests, goals for Udacity, and background information 
 that can be talking points when you discuss Udacity.
Why do you want to work here?
The mission aligns with my own belief that lifelong learning is important.
I see many jobs are remote-friendly and I like that flexibility.
I'm interested in gaining experience in the online learning space.
Mapping Exercise
Now, treat the space below as a notepad for recording notes on your research for each company.
 You can copy and paste this information into a new document to build upon later!

Plot a potential stop on your career journey
Company 1

Primary product(s)
History of the company or organization
Company Mission
Leadership
Why do you want to work here?
Enter your response here, there's no right or wrong answer
Plot a potential stop on your career journey
Company 2

Primary product(s)
History of the company or organization
Company Mission
Leadership
Why do you want to work here?
Enter your response here, there's no right or wrong answer
Plot a potential stop on your career journey
Company 3

Primary product(s)
History of the company or organization
Company Mission
Leadership
Why do you want to work here?
Enter your response here, there's no right or wrong answer




What Next?
Down the road, the information you've compiled in the previous exercise will be important 
for any cover letters you send or interviews you attend. For now, you should be able to get 
a good idea of how some companies in your intended industry perceive themselves. If anything 
seems too good to be true or draws your curiosity, make note of them. You can dig in a little
 bit on sites like Glassdoor, which allows employees and interviewees to post information about
  their experiences anonymously.

Get to Know a Company's Product
You've taken a quick snapshot of three companies. If one or more of them interest you further,
 your next step is to better understand their products.

We cannot stress enough how important it is to have an understanding of a company’s product
 when you decide to apply for a job. If the product is free to acquire (for example, 
 an app that you can download and test out), use it for a few days and take notes on 
 what your user experience is like. If you cannot pay for the product, or the product 
 is inaccessible to you, search for reviews online and see what people who have used it 
 have written. Here are a couple of things to watch out for that will help you understand
  the product’s role in the current market:

How many users does it currently have? Where does it rank against its competitors?
Have any major publications (The New York Times, Bloomberg Business, Wired, etc.) covered 
the product or company’s growth and development?
Are there any major glitches, bugs, or other technical flaws that have been reported and 
have gone unresolved?
In your opinion, what are the best attributes of the product? What are things to be fixed
 or improved?
By learning the most up-to-date information on a company's product, you will be able to speak
 more eloquently in an interview or to a company contact, showcasing your in-depth knowledge 
 of the company.

Detours can happen! Detours can be for the better!
Like any journey, there can be roadblocks and detours. An opportunity can end up not 
working out, or you can change your mind about your destination midway through. 
All of this is natural. Many professionals who look back on their career say they got 
to where they are today via unexpected jobs or opportunities. You are likely one of these
 people already!

The Next Step in Career Exploration - Informational Interviews
Career and industry research will also involve reaching out to new connections in order 
to learn more granular information about a particular position in a company. 
If you don't have a concrete idea of which jobs you're interested in, informational 
interviews are even more helpful in giving you valuable, insider insight. Up next we'll 
go over how to reach out to people, how to conduct informational interviews, and how to 
get the most out of these conversations.



What is an informational interview?
After performing your own career and industry research, the natural progression of 
building upon this knowledge is talking to people, in order to learn from them. 
Usually, an informational interview is a one-on-one informal meeting, phone call or
 video conference where you lead a conversation with someone who is currently working in a role,
 industry you are interested in.

Why is it useful?
Being able to speak with those already working in the industry will allow you to confirm
 or refute the information you've collected on your own. It is an opportunity for you to
  learn about company culture, responsibilities of a role from an internal perspective, 
  industry prospects, or even open positions at the company. Informational interviews are
   also a great way to make new professional connections and expand your network, whether
    you’re currently active on the job market or not.

In this lesson, we will cover the following topics:

How to find people for an informational interview
How to reach out to someone
What to ask in an informational interview
What to do after the informational interview to keep the conversation going





How to Reach Out
There are numerous avenues to reach out to people. You can do a search on LinkedIn and message 
a few people with interesting backgrounds or current jobs. Or, you can attend a public networking event and ask someone you meet there.

Consider the following tips on how to start reaching to people for informational interviews.

Leverage your existing network.
Friends, former supervisors, colleagues, family, and alumni groups are all communities 
filled with people who have your best interest at heart. If you've enrolled in a Nanodegree 
program, you are already a part of a robust community of driven, supportive people 
- your Nanodegree community!

Asking your community at large is the easiest way to get information. Sometimes, 
you don't even need to ask a specific person; you can post a message like this on your 
social media profile:

“Hey! I am currently in the process of transitioning into [x field] and would love to
 talk to any [y roles or employees at z company] to gain a better understanding of the 
 work and industry. Please send me a direct message, and I’ll be happy to buy you coffee!”

Target meetups, career fairs, public events, and LinkedIn.
Industry professionals are often interested in maintaining an active network and 
mentoring new talent. While each individual may have their own style and time constraints,
 being proactive and letting others know you are both interested and dedicated can yield
  great conversations and future contacts.

Target companies and roles separately.
Consider this example: if you are seeking out a product manager position but your only 
contact at your dream company is someone in Sales, you can still take the opportunity 
to learn more about the company culture and vision. They may also be able to provide 
an introduction to a product manager within the company. On the other hand, speaking
 with a product manager at a company or in an industry outside of your immediate interests 
 can also be worthwhile as a way to learn about the role’s professional responsibilities.

Request an Informational Interview
An initial email or longer LinkedIn message are two of the most common ways of extending a 
request for an informational interview. Consider the following when crafting your message:

Your tone should be gracious; at no point should you assume that they are obligated to 
offer you their time or attention, regardless of how you know each other.
Make sure that your email is concise and specific. For example, if you're hoping for a 
20-minute phone call, you can say: "If you have time for a 20-minute phone call, I would 
appreciate the opportunity to learn more about the company."
Sometimes, you will not get an immediate reply. The person could be on vacation or
 overwhelmed with messages.
Be sure to allow enough time (up to 2 weeks) for a response. If they have not responded 
within a week, you can send one follow-up inquiry.
If you aren’t able to schedule a live conversation, the contact may be still willing to 
answer some questions over email or LinkedIn.

Exercise
Complete the exercise below in order to help you draft a good email or message requesting a 
meeting. In this exercise, we've provided examples of different types of asks and content 
that you can find in an informational interview request.

Try to get the correct match by dragging each example next to the corresponding content 
type in the table below.

QUIZ QUESTION
Are you familiar with the language and tone of an informational interview request? 
Pair up the content type and answer by dragging and dropping the blue sentences.






CONTENT TYPE

EXAMPLE

Reason for reaching out

Your career interest

Explanation of how contact’s position/background connects with your career interest and 
reason for reaching out

Your connection to the person, if there is any

Details on where, when, and how you would like to carry out the informational interview




Now you know how to reach out to someone for an informational interview!
 The two most likely ways for you to connect with someone is over email 
 (you got their business card, or someone introduced you both) or over LinkedIn.
  Although email and LinkedIn are different platforms, the structure of how you reach out
   and start a conversation is the same. See the examples below.

Sample Email Template
Hi [Contact Name],

1st Paragraph - Self introduction including the following information:

Your career interests
Reason for reaching out
How contact’s position/background connects the first 2 pieces of information
Your connection to the person you’re writing to, if there is any
2nd Paragraph - Details on where, when, and how you would like to carry out the informational 
interview

Sincerely,

[Name]

[LinkedIn profile URL -- make sure to set your privacy settings to public!]

Example LinkedIn Conversation
Sometimes, you may not be able to email somebody. Platforms like LinkedIn make it easy for 
people to find and connect with each other. When you connect with someone, make sure to 
write a note in the request. You only have 300 characters in a connection request to make 
a first great impression. Below is an example of how a conversation can flow.

A screencapture of a LinkedIn invite introductory email between Trinh and Ruyi.
 Ruyi's invite says, "Hi Trinh, My name is Ruyi, a computer science teacher 
 interested in transitioning into course development in the e-learning industry.
  I would love to hear more about your exciting work at Udacity. Would you be able 
  to connect for a quick chat? thank you for your time! Best, Ruyi".
Once they've accepted your invitation to connect, you can move forward with sending your 
request to meet for an informational interview.

A screencapture of a LinkedIn messaging thread between Trinh and Ruyi, who are now connected 
on LinkedIn. Trinh's response reads: "Hi Ruyi, thanks for connecting and telling me a bit 
about yourself. I'm happy to chat. What would you like to learn about Udacity?"
Don't forget: people like being reached out to! There's no reason to see your informational 
interview request as an inconvenience to the other person. Like you, other people are 
interested in improving professionally, which can revolve around sharing their own 
experiences and knowledge or discussing current topics of interest in the industry.

Over time, you will become deeply familiar with conducting informational interviews. 
You may feel nervous or unsure at first, but with practice and frequent networking interactions,
on become a networking pro.

We hope that you now feel equipped with the knowledge and confidence to successfully
 conduct an informational interview from start to finish.

Good Luck!




Prepare Interview Questions
After you've set up an informational interview, prepare yourself to ensure you
 make the most of your learning opportunity. We recommend doing preliminary research on 
 both the company and the individual, drafting sample questions, and practicing beforehand.

Below are a few guidelines:

Come prepared with smart, relevant questions. If you can find the answer to your question 
on the person's LinkedIn profile, in a Google search, or on the company website,
 you can be fairly confident that it won’t be the best question to ask.
Opt for open-ended questions with potential for insightful answers.
Before the interview, create a sample question list.
During the interview, take notes on the information you learn and be mindful of your goals.
Ask clarifying questions as needed.
Goals
Be goal-oriented throughout the interview. Think of a few outcomes you would like to
 achieve at the end of the interview. For example, your goal may be to build your network,
  find more contacts, or access insider information about company and culture.

We also recommend approaching the interview as an opportunity to gain recommendations 
for resources (blogs, books, etc.) relevant to your industry.

Finally, make it a goal to leave a positive impression. Even if your new contact 
isn’t able to directly help you advance in your job search right now, you never know 
when they may think of you for a future opportunity.

Sample Questions Quiz
QUIZ QUESTION
Do you know which questions are a good idea to ask or are unsuitable to bring up in an 
informational interview? Take this quiz to find out. From this list, check all questions 
which you think would be good to ask.





Learn why some questions are unsuitable for an informational interview.
We hope you learned some new questions to ask in the informational interview from the 
Sample Questions Quiz. Next, we'd like to break down the reasons for why some of these 
questions are unsuitable for an informational interview and should be avoided. 
Also, we'll go over what you can ask instead!

Can you tell me about [x company controversy]?
Why not to ask: As an employee, it can be both uncomfortable and awkward for them to 
make public comments to you about such a sensitive topic. The purpose of this informational
 interview is for you to develop a rapport with a valuable professional connection.

What to ask instead: Rather than focusing on such a negative topic, steer the conversation
 toward your shared passions and professional interests. If it's absolutely necessary for 
 you to address an area of concern, do so in a polite and constructive way by posing the
  question after you have developed a stronger rapport with them. For example, 
  instead of framing the conversation as company gossip, approach the question from 
  a more professional angle: "After doing research on your company, I noticed some 
  comments on Glassdoor about [x issue]. Would you be able to shed some light on my
   concerns regarding these comments?"

How much do you make?
Why not to ask: It’s normal to be curious about such a topic, especially since you will 
have your own expectations around the salary for a position you're interested in. However,
 this can be an inappropriate, private question to ask, especially the first time you meet.

What to ask instead: If you wish to collect information on this topic, try posing a more
 general question to gauge the industry’s expected salary range for a position. Furthermore,
  don't forget to do some research on websites like Paysa, which provides market salary data,
   to see if you can find a reliable answer on your own.

Can I add you on Facebook?
Why not to ask: You may find yourself developing a great connection with whomever you’re
 interviewing, but remember that you should keep the exchange professional. Furthermore,
  they may be hesitant about connecting on a social platform with someone who contacted
   them with inquiries about their professional experience and career advice.

What to ask instead: If you’d like to maintain friendly but professional contact with them,
 politely ask if you can add them on LinkedIn (if you haven’t already).

What other roles have you worked in?
Why not to ask: This seems like a suitable question, but should actually be avoided 
because you should already know the answer! As part of your interview preparation, 
you’ll inevitably look up information on the interviewee’s work history via their LinkedIn 
profile. Remember, you want to spend the precious amount of time you have for this interview 
on getting answers to questions that you would not be able to find online.

What to ask instead: If you wish to learn more about a certain aspect of their work experience,
 try preparing questions that show you've done your research and have put much thought into
  what you want to discuss with them. For example, "I see you've worked at [this company]. 
  Why did you decide to switch jobs?"





How to Keep the Conversation Going
Now that you’ve made a personal connection, keep it going! Send a thank you note within 24 hours;
 email is fine! If anything particularly memorable happened during your conversation, 
 you may want to mention it in order to reinforce that you were actively listening and engaged.

When sending your thank you email, send your resume so they can introduce you to others and 
remember who you are. Over time, keep in touch through holiday greetings, sharing information
 about topics of interest, and keeping them posted on progress in your job search. 
 People like to help others and hear that they are making a positive impact!

Final Takeaways
The most common questions about informational interviews stem from entering a new 
industry and uncertainty about how to make new connections.

To address these concerns, remember:

People generally want to help! It is a chance to give back, network and simply share 
excitement and information about a job. You will likely be surprised by people's willingness
 to share.
Start building relationships as soon as possible; these are long-term relationships that 
will require some nurturing.
Take advantage of your Udacity community. Classmates, instructors, and support staff are 
all a part of your network.
Get out of your comfort zone and learn to be proactive about asking. The worst that can 
happen is that someone declines or does not respond to your request. But there will be
 people who don't decline and will respond!
Be optimistic and resourceful. Informational interviews are great learning experiences and 
practice for future job interviews.

xxxx
After doing research on your company, I noticed some comments on Glassdoor about [x issue]. 
Would you be able to shed some light on my concerns regarding these comments?"

xxx
For example, "I see you've worked at [this company]. Why did you decide to switch jobs?"

xxx
politely ask if you can add them on LinkedIn (if you haven’t already).

xxx
After doing research on your company, I noticed some comments on Glassdoor about [x issue].
 Would you be able to shed some light on my concerns regarding these comments?"













